---
title: Activity Report 2024 - Projects and Community
---

The projects and community team (PaC) manages the relationship between the
Libera.Chat volunteer staff and projects and communities that use our network.
It takes care of registrations and onboarding for projects and communities that
would like to have an official representation on Libera.Chat. In addition to
that, we keep up communications and good relationships both on the network and
also through other channels, such as social media.

## Registrations
At the end of fiscal year 2024 we had 1024 registered projects. In a first
since the inception of Libera.Chat, our project registration backlog is now
empty! This will allow us to respond to any future requests in a much more
expedient fashion.

## Improvements
We have revised our project registration and channel namespace policies to help
clarify what we look for in a registered project, and to assist people with
setting up and maintaining channels without requiring formal registration.
Additionally, we have created a blog post regarding LLM etiquette on our
network, to help provide guidance to our communities that they can take and
further customise according to their needs.

## Social Media
During 2024 we decided to stop posting content to Facebook and the social media
site formerly known as Twitter. Our focus is now on our Fosstodon fediverse
account and our account on Bluesky. We have been posting community-building
content to these accounts, such as our April Fools Day prank.

## Team Internals
The PaC team consisted of 17 members at the end of fiscal year 2024. We did not
hold any formal PaC meetings during 2024, however there was much activity on our
internal IRC channel.

## Looking Forwards
As we move into 2025, we expect to see a slowdown in new project registrations
due to many communities already established on Libera.Chat already having
registrations as well as our revised channel namespace guidelines that reduce
the requirement for a registration, making it much more of an opt-in decision on
the part of communities.

We hope to maintain our empty backlog by promptly addressing any new
registrations or other inquiries as they come in.

Reception around our improvements has been very positive, and we aim to continue
improving things for the communities that choose us as their home.

We also intend to improve our social media reach and engagement. Many of the
connections we established on Twitter did not carry over, and we will be putting
effort in to reconnecting with our projects and communities on the federated
social protocols.
