---
title: The price of good advice
author: el
excerpt: Fundraising to get legal advice about the UK's Online Safety Act.
---

Hello,

You may have noticed that things on the Internet are getting a bit dire
lately, particularly in terms of legislation that makes running services like
Libera.Chat way more complicated than they should be. This means we need to
understand what we as a network are up against, especially since several of
you have approached staff asking us related questions that we currently cannot
answer. Between existing legislation such as the [UK's Online Safety Act][osa],
and prospective measures like the [EU's Chat Control][chatcontrol], we are
facing a bunch of new bureaucracy to navigate, and none of us are trained for
that.

After reaching out to multiple contacts, a bunch of prep work on our side,
and some back and forth with a firm that has some tech-related background,
we have finally arranged some actual legal advice. While this has taken far
longer than we'd have liked, part of the delay has also been our hesitation to
spend any money on this. At [our last MGM][mgm], we agreed that this is
unfortunately what we need to do, to the tune of £1920.

While we are very fortunate that our finances allow us to afford this one
bill, it is... only one bill. Regulations infringing on the neutrality of
online services, and the right to privacy online, are not going to stop with
the OSA, or with Chat Control. Laws like this multiply. It is very likely that
this is not the last time we need to cough up perfectly good money to buy
advice about the latest government overreach.

So, as awkward as this is, ***we are asking for your help***.

If you value the service Libera.Chat provides, [please consider a contribution
towards the cost of this bill][donate]. Doing so ensures that we have enough
reserves for followup costs or future crises, either of this nature or
otherwise. Folks in Chat Control countries, *please* also reach out to your
representatives and (diplomatically!) tell them what is at risk.

We are committed to being transparent about the outcome of this situation, and
hope that other similar services can benefit from our effort and expense.

[osa]: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/50/contents
[chatcontrol]: https://fightchatcontrol.eu/
[mgm]: https://libera.chat/minutes/2025-09-26-public
[donate]: https://libera.chat/contributing/donate/
