---
title: Monthly General Meeting, July 2021
author: Swant
excerpt: >
  De-listing proprietary platforms from our website, defining processes in case of staff misconduct,
  transparency - real names on the website, consensus building, and meeting timing.
---

## Propositions and motions

No propositions or motions had been submitted to this meeting

## Other questions

### De-listing proprietary platforms from our website

Discussions were held on whether to de-list proprietary platforms from our
website footer, after some discussion it was decided that we would reorder the
footer to put FOSS platforms first, and remove links to social media from the
"Connect" section of the top menu. It was determined that keeping the links
in the footer signifies that the accounts on those platforms are official.
Some discussion arose around adding our primary support email to the footer
as well, but it was disregarded in favour of ongoing efforts to add a more
detailed page on how to contact staff.

### Defining processes in case of staff misconduct

Discussions were held around initiating work to define processes
around how to receive and process any reports of staff misconduct. Whilst
there are no current incidents, we believe it is important to have clear
processes for staff and users alike were it ever to happen. The meeting tasked
a working group with brainstorming options to present at a future meeting.

### Transparency - real names on the website

A while back we were asked to list our board members by real name publicly,
which we chose to do at the time in the name of increasing transparency.
Lately, however, we've started to see negative consequences of this, and
discussions of removing it or making public listing of real name optional
were held. The organisation would of course continue to keep private records
needed for legal obligations if this were to occur. The meeting decided to
pose the question to our projects, communities and sponsors and will await
their feedback before any further decision.

### Consensus building

Discussions were held around the process of building consensus, in particular
for small decisions. This is part of an ongoing and wider discussion on the
topic, and a few examples of instances where our processes didn't fully work
were brought up for discussion in an attempt to identify how we can improve
in the future.

### Meeting timing

The meeting decided to move to a regularly scheduled meeting slot for
monthly general meetings.
