---
title: Monthly General Meeting, November 2022
author: jess
excerpt: >
    Staff proxy voting, tweaking invite-notify, and hiding idle times
---

## Proposition and motions

### Confirmation of new members

A vote to approve one new staff member was deferred to the December MGM.

### Potential bylaw amendment for staff proxy voting

Given not all staff are able to attend Monthly General Meetings, this MGM
discussed whether it was possible to amend our bylaws to allow proxy voting.

Arguments in favour mostly consisted of making decision making more
accessible, but some argued that the discussions that happen in MGMs preceding
a vote often change what the outcome is. Some suggestions were made that proxy
voting be kept to simple decisions, and some suggestions were made about
moving simple voting outside of MGMs.

Two staff volunteered to make a more concrete proposal and present it to
staff.

## Other questions

### Should we enable `invite-notify`?

`invite-notify` is an IRCv3 capability for telling clients when someone has
been invited to a channel they're in. Concerns were raised about how this
degrades to a `NOTICE` sent to clients that don't support `invite-notify`, and
how this might be a bit too noisy, especially for big channels and channels
where non-ops can invite people (channels that are `+g`.)

A suggestion was made to add a configuration option to the `invite-notify`
module in solanum that would remove the `NOTICE` downgrade, and the MGM
agreed.

### User mode to hide user idle times

Solanum recently gained a module that adds a user mode which users can set on
themselves to hide their idle time from other users. The MGM discussed whether
or not staff should still be able to see idle times.

In the interest of getting this functionality available quickly, we opted to
always allow staff to see idle times, and plan to revisit whether staff should
have to intentionally request this data in the future, given a change to make
this possible would take a while.
