---
title: Monthly General Meeting, March 2022
author: ben
excerpt: >
  Approval of annual report. Election of a new board for operating year 2022.
  Discharge of last year's board. Set membership fee. Moved the seat of the organisation.
---

## Propositions and motions

### Presentation and approval of annual report

[2021 annual report](/annual-reports/2021/)

#### Financial statements

Libera Chat ended fiscal year 2021-04-23 -- 2021-12-31 with a result of 0 SEK.

#### PaC

The Projects and Communities team registered over 900 projects, has
adopted social media handling, and held 2 meetings last year.

#### Engineering

The engineering team achieved the herculean task of getting libera up and
running from scratch on a new ircd. Monthly dev meetings were held to discuss
ongoing efforts including various bots and upstream contributions.

#### Ops

The ops team has focused on improving automation and integration of systems
with puppet. Server sponsors and deployment were also handled by ops.

#### Audit report

The audit team reviews finances and monitors board conduct.
No issues or concerns found with finance or conduct.
Auditors recommend that the board is discharged of liability

Annual report approved.

### Organisation Membership fee

An organisation membership fee of 0 SEK for 2022 was decided.

### Moving the seat of the organisation

The seat and postal address of Libera Chat was moved to Ängelholm, Ängelholms Kommun.

### Annual board elections

#### Presentation of chair nomination process

After forming a chair nomination panel, initial interest was gauged behind
blinding identifiers. Candidates were then asked to complete a written
assessment. After narrowing down to a shortlist of three candidates,
un-blinded vocal interviews were conducted. Following the interviews,
the chair panel recommended moonmoon based on experience and excellence
of responses.

#### Candidates introduced themselves briefly

Three candidates briefly introduced themselves and their vision for the
chair role.

#### Open discussion

There was an open floor discussion where staff discussed some bits and pieces
of what they would want to see in their chair and asked opinions of the
prospective chairs.

### Discharge of last year’s board

Last years' board was discharged

### Election Summary

| role | person |
|------|--------|
| chair | moonmoon |
| treasurer | Swant |
| vice chair | edk |
| eng rep | edk |
| ops rep | glguy |
| pac rep | Fuchs |
| auditors | - A\_Dragon<br/>- allie |
