---
title: Monthly General Meeting, February 2022
author: moonmoon
excerpt: >
  Restriction on collecting and sharing private info, internal oversight,
  NickServ registration via the web, bypassing IP blocklists while using SASL,
  adjustments to an internal channel, accepting donations, difficulties with
  the Matrix bridge, and staff recruitment efforts.
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->

## Propositions and motions

### Policies: Section about sharing private info

An amendment to our policies was approved which forbids the collection and
sharing of confidential information about other people. It was noted during
the meeting that this policy change is not intended to forbid users
maintaining their own private logs in their IRC clients.

<details>
<summary>Patch for policy change</summary>
<div markdown="1">

```patch
 policies.md | 10 ++++++++++
 1 file changed, 10 insertions(+)

diff --git a/policies.md b/policies.md
index edafe2a..9fd5ceb 100644
--- a/policies.md
+++ b/policies.md
@@ -60,6 +60,16 @@ Inciting violence is not allowed. The same goes for any other behaviour meant
 to deliberately harass, alarm, or distress a person. We also do
 not tolerate libel and defamation.
 
+Collecting or sharing the private or confidential information of other people
+is not allowed. This includes but is not limited to information such as phone
+numbers, post addresses, email addresses, employment information, usernames or
+sign-in credentials. This does not apply to widely available public
+information such as the office phone number of a public official. Libera.Chat
+users and staff members have the ability to remain pseudonymous. Linking a
+Libera.Chat username of someone operating under a pseudonym to other
+identities against their will is not considered acceptable either on or off
+IRC. Libera.Chat staff will not answer questions about such information.
+
 While we believe in the concept of freedom of thought and freedom of
 expression, Libera.Chat does not operate on the basis of absolute freedom of
 speech, and we impose limitations based on the above rules.
```

</div>
</details>

## Other questions

### Internal oversight

The meeting discussed internal oversight measures for highly-privileged staff
accounts and how to handle access management and communication when a staffer
temporarily steps down. Better documentation around this process was desired,
which will be created in other forums.

### NickServ registration via the web

The meeting discussed allowing registration of NickServ accounts via a website
to reduce friction for users unfamiliar with IRC. There was general agreement
that this was desirable, and the meeting left working out details to achieve
this feature for other forums.

During this discussion, it was noted that many channels unnecessarily ban or
quiet unregistered users. A blog post will be written to discourage channel
ops from leaving such bans or quiets enabled long-term and to discuss other
ways to moderate channels and curb abuse coming from unregistered connections.

### Bypassing IP blocklists while using SASL

It was noted that VPNs or extremely dynamic home IPs are often listed in an IP
blocklist used by Libera.Chat, and these listings can impact the ability for
legitimate users to connect to the network. The meeting discussed making the
blocklist not apply to users connecting while using SASL to authenticate
against their NickServ account. An alternative was raised to make the ability
to bypass these blocklists account-based instead of IP-based. No decision was
made during the meeting, and it will be discussed further in another forum.

### Adjustments to an internal channel

The meeting discussed the usage of an internal channel and potential
adjustments to how the channel is used to make it more useful for staff. Some
suggestions were raised, and the meeting elected to discuss these adjustments
further in another forum.

### Accepting donations

The meeting discussed three potential methods to accept donations: Open
Collective, Liberapay, and GitHub Sponsors. Some of these methods require an
account with either Stripe or PayPal in order to receive the funds. The
meeting decided to proceed with setting up Liberapay with a backing Stripe
account. Other methods of accepting donations will not be set up at this time,
but the meeting expressed an interest in setting up alternative methods should
there be an actual need for them.

### Difficulties with the Matrix bridge

The meeting briefly discussed recent issues surrounding the Matrix bridge in
preparation for an upcoming meeting with Element Matrix Services, the operators
of the bridge.

### Staff recruitment efforts

An update was given regarding an effort to identify potential new members for
staff.
