---
title: Monthly General Meeting, June 2022
author: kline
excerpt: >
  New piece of infrastructure, public participation in Working Groups, and
  officially recognised & trusted external contributors
---

## Proposition and motions

### Confirmation of new members

A vote to confirm new staffer as a member of the organisation was postponed
due to absence.

## Other questions

### Haematite

A new piece of infrastructure, haematite, was proposed for development.

This piece of software would attach to the network as if it was a server and
re-present the data a server can see in a well-structured format, for easier
consumption of network state by bots.

Ethical considerations were made for the fact that this will empower bots to
see more data than they currently can, but agreement was made for tight acess
controls specific to each bot, and that we'd discuss each bot that wanted to
use it as-and-when.

### Public participation in Working Groups

The meeting discussed whether it would be a good idea to include external
subject matter experts and stakeholders in Working Groups that have thus far
been mostly recognised to only consist of staff members. Examples of where
this would make sense, and we agreed that our current bylaws do not disallow
it, and it would be a beneficial move.

### Trusted external contributors

The meeting discussed whether we should re-invent a situation we'd had before
where specific trusted non-staff individuals could be recognised as trusted to
know internal rationale for development work and be involved in discussions
about that development work. The meeting decided that we should.

### Out-of-band staff messenger

The meeting revisited a question from a previous MGM concerning which
out-of-band messenger the org should use, but no decision had been made since
the last time it was discussed, and thus the meeting decided to put to topic
to rest until such a time as there's a meaningful need to discuss it again.
