---
title: Monthly General Meeting, September 2022
author: jess
excerpt: >
    Board elections, potential trademark, and potential irc feature
    improvements.
---

## Propositions and motions

### New staff candidates

Two names for new staff candidates were voted on, and both passed. They were
both approached with invites after the meeting ended.

### Board elections

Two vacancies on the organisation's board had candidates put forward and voted
on. Both votes passed, making tomaw the new representative of the operations
team, and making spb the new representative of the engineering team.

## Other questions

### Progress on making login failure notices optional

The meeting discussed how far this feature has gotten. The outline of the plan
was reiterated, the current progress was discussed, and a blocker to progress
was pointed out: putting tighter throttles on login attempts to make it safer
for us to turn these user-facing warnings off by default.

### Do we want a trademark?

The meeting discussed whether it is worth looking in to a trademark for the
organsation and its various assets it would like to protect. The meeting
agreed to look in to how we'd do this and what it would entail.

### Shall we load chm_regmsg?

A suggestion was put forward to load a solanum module that would add a new
channel mode (`+R`) that would prevent unregistered users from talking, but
would still permit them to join the channel. A shortcoming was pointed out in
how `chm_regmsg` currently worked, so the meeting agreed to look in to fixing
that shortcoming, and then loading the module.

### Making Tor easier to use

Many users express a desire to use Tor to connect to us over Tor for a variety
of reasons, and the steps involved to connect to us over Tor are complicated
due to abuse mitigation measures in place. A plan was put forward to retain
sufficient abuse mitigation whilst making Tor easier to configure, and the
meeting agreed to pursue this plan.

### Should we remove +s as a default channel mode

The meeting discussed the fact that, although making channels secret by
default is a safe option, many channels may still be set to secret without
realising it. The meeting agreed to draw up a plan to fix this, taking in to
consideration common usecases and safety concerns.
