---
title: Monthly General Meeting, August 2022
author: moonmoon
excerpt: >
  New staff candidates, trademark registration, ratification of board
  decisions surrounding the complaints process, migration of internal
  documentation, and appropriateness of certain channel types on the
  network.
---

## Propositions and motions

### New staff candidates

Two new staff candidates were discussed during the meeting with positive
opinions by those present. However, a formal decision to invite these
candidates to staff was postponed to the next meeting due to low membership
turnout during this meeting.

### Trademark registration

The meeting discussed the registration of a trademark for Libera.Chat in
one or more of the EU, UK, and US. A main benefit pointed out during the
meeting in such a registration is to assist with and defend against potential
future domain name disputes. It was decided to contact a lawyer once the
meeting concluded to discuss these registrations and to discover more
information about the pricing and process.

### Ratification of board decisions surrounding the complaints process

Per our [bylaws](/bylaws#interpretation-of-the-bylaws), interpretations made
by the board must be raised for ratification at a Monthly General Meeting.
Two such interpretations were made surrounding the complaints process outlined
in the bylaws, and both were ratified by the meeting:

- If it is not possible to find two additional complaints rota members for a
  second appeal, the second appeal will be skipped and the appeals process
  will move directly to the all-staff appeal.
- The all-staff appeal is not an Extraordinary General Meeting.

During this process, members expressed their opinions that the wording of the
process needs adjustment in various areas, and have stated their intent to
bring up these changes for discussion and vote in a future meeting.

## Other questions

### Migration of internal documentation

The meeting discussed how a new internal documentation platform was working
out, and whether documentation from the old platform can be removed since
the new platform contains all of the same information. It was decided to
remove the duplicated content from the old platform, and a staff member did
so during the meeting.

It was noted the old platform would still be used for some items, such as
storage of staff-internal meeting minutes.

### Appropriateness of certain channel types on the network

As the discussion for this is still ongoing, the meeting chose to redact all
details of this item from the publicly-released minutes.
