---
title: Monthly General Meeting, October 2022
author: jess
excerpt: >
    Merch provider backlinks, assisting irc.gnome.org migration,
    and some policy gubbins.
---

## Proposition and motions

### Confirmation of new members

The meeting approved one new staff member. Current staff/members are listed
on the [about page](/about/).

### A staffer is up for returning to the team

The meeting agreed that this former staffer would be a win to have back on the
team, so they were approached with an invite once the meeting was over.

### FreeWear.org backlink program

The org is intending to use FreeWear.org for Libera Chat merchandise. Putting
a link to their site somewhere on our site would be of benefit to FreeWear
(exposure) and of benefit to us (a higher cut on sale of our merch.) The
meeting decided to go ahead with this, intending to put a backlink in a
subpage under "Contribute" that explains our relationship with FreeWear.

## Other questions

### irc.gnome.org on our TLS certificates?

GNOME has announced their intention to shut down GIMPnet and move the IRC
portion of their communities to Libera Chat, and have requested that, to aid
their migration, we offer `irc.gnome.org` as a Subject Alternative Name on our
IRC TLS certificates. The meeting agreed to do this, with a time limit of a
year.

### Stance on law enforcement

This was brought up proactively, rather than in reaction to something that has
happened. The meeting agreed that we should draft internal policy on this
before it becomes something we have to deal with.

### Should we give OS JUPE to senior-staffer

The `senior-staffer` privset was given the ability to re-route the network
recently, and a question was posed about whether they should also be given the
ability to temporarily ban certain servers from reconnecting to this network,
if e.g. a server is suffering from network instability that causes it to
repeatedly netsplit. The meeting decided to give `OS JUPE` to
`senior-staffer`.

### Making login failures notices optional

The meeting discussed how the user configuration part of this change would be
implemented. The meeting decided to make the configuration have 3 modes:
opt-in, opt-out, & default. Anyone that explicitly opted in or opted out would
have their decisions remembered, but everyone else would have whatever the
network wide default was. This would allow us to start out with a default of
being opted in, then we could implore people wishing to retain these notices
to explicitly opted in, and later move to a default of opted out.

### Trademark details

After consultation with experts, the benefits of obtaining a copyright seem to
have receded; so the meeting decided to not progress on obtaining a trademark
for now.

### Should we remove oper:always_message from privsets?

Staff, up until now, have always overridden usermode `+g` ("caller id".) This
is unideal, because not every message we try to send to users is urgent, and
would like to respect `+g` by default. The meeting agreed to remove this
default override behaviour, and replace it with an explicit case-by-case
override.

### Should we have guidelines for managing #libera

New staff coming aboard has made it clear that a lot of the way staff manage
channels is passed down by oral history. A lot of it is simply catalyst
guidlines, but the meeting agreed to write down internal policy about this in
more detail.
