---
title: Monthly General Meeting, December 2023
author: amdj
excerpt: >
    Discussion of connection limits for other Matrix bridges, whether
    accounts should receive automatic user cloaks upon registration
    verification
---

## Other Questions

### How do we want to handle other matrix bridge limits?

The meeting opened with a remark that an existing bridge was hitting its
agreed-upon connection limit, and put it to the question whether this should
be raised again.
It was decided that if the bridges are competently-maintained and stay within
their respective namespaces, then we do not have an issue with raising
the limits as required for the bridges to continue to operate.
We will revisit this decision if a problematic bridge pops up in the future.

### Should we auto-cloak verified accounts by default?

At the moment, if users want a cloak after registering and verifying their
services account, they have to join `#libera-cloak` and ask the bot there to
cloak them. This is mentioned in the `#libera` topic and on the website, but
is otherwise not particularly well-documented, and many new users will be
perhaps unaware of the option to do so.

It was raised whether this should be an automatic process instead, or to
perhaps make it a self-service option as it is now, but integrated into
services, with a hint from services, after verifying, that the user can now
grab a user cloak immediately by simply issuing another services command.

Rate limits and abuse mitigation were discussed for the self-service option.
Given that we currently allow account name changes without staff
intervention, this would allow people using the self-service option to
update their user cloak after changing their account name, something that is
currently reviewed by staff in order to deter abuse.

It was ultimately decided that we will explore an automatic cloaking upon
account creation option, and that we could always turn this off and go back
to the status quo or revisit the issue in future if this becomes a problem.
