---
title: Monthly General Meeting, January 2023
author: jess
excerpt: >
    Bylaw change pertaining to hiring, timeline for upcoming hires, planning
    out board elections, and a recap on the progress of a new user mode.
---

## Proposition and motions

### Bylaws change: make the hiring deadline 3 months rather than 2

Staff approved a [bylaw change][0] that makes the deadline for voting a new
staff member in to the Organisation 3 MGMs, instead of the current 2 MGMs.

## Other questions

### Current status on user mode `+I`

User mode `+I` is a [solanum feature][1] that allows users to hide their
idle time in `/whois` responses. Staff are eager to have this feature
available, but had been considering an idea to change this functionality to
show approximate idle times (e.g. `"last seen recently"` vs `"last seen a week
ago"`) instead of totally hiding them.

The meeting decided this was, at least for now, more work than it was worth,
and agreed to simply work out one small remaining issue with the solanum
feature (the wording of a message shown when running `/whois` on a user mode
`+I` user) and then push ahead with deployment.

### Chair (and board) election preparation

The organisation is undertaking its Annual General Meeting in March this year
and our bylaws dictate that the Board of the organisation as well as the
auditors of the organisation must be elected or re-elected.

The meeting discussed how the staff body plans to run these elections, and
settled on a plan to use an existing voting system (the [Condorcet Internet
Voting Service][2]) and allow the staff body to vote for each election
anonymously over the course of a few weeks, leading up to the Annual General
Meeting.

Our bylaws require a vote in the Annual General Meeting to elect board
positions, so the plan is to take the result of the anonymous poll and vote to
accept the outcome of that poll in the Annual General Meeting.

### When do we want to do more hires?

The meeting discussed when the staff body would like to run another round of
staff hires.

The meeting concluded there was apetite to hire more staff, but also accepted
that our next monthly meeting is likely to be too busy with Annual General
Meeting commitments, so decided to postpone hiring for a couple of months.

[0]: https://github.com/Libera-Chat/libera-chat.github.io/commit/a7820108c6bc6ac6ec18e38a70d7a4fd4c798397
[1]: https://github.com/solanum-ircd/solanum/blob/main/extensions/umode_hide_idle_time.c
[2]: https://civs1.civs.us/
