---
title: Monthly General Meeting, April 2023
author: A_Dragon
excerpt: >
  Changes to Complaints documentation, Channel closure options,
  New staff members, `+w` by default.
---

## Proposition and motions

### Complaints update

A discussion was tabled to update our complaints process with additional wording
regarding what constitutes a complaint.

We decided that while an amendment to the bylaws surrounding complaints was not
needed, an update to surrounding documentation on our website will be drafted.

## Other Questions

### Methods of channel closure

When we close channels we take a particular set of actions.

It was raised that this method of closure may violate our retention policy,
as closed channels keep their topics and access lists.

It was decided that a new method would be tried, and all existing closures would
be moved to this new method.

### New staff member

A new staff member was discussed and we decided to move forward with the beginnings
of inviting them to join Libera.Chat

### `+w` (wallops) By default re-evaluation

We discussed the results of moving user mode `+w` to be a default user mode.

We came to the conclusion that we need to work on being able to modify this
generally, as the main friction with it comes more from users needing to opt
in or opt out every time they connect, or figure out how to tell their client
to do so.

We decided that while considering other changes, we should look to updating our
general documentation for clients to include instructions for how to set
user modes on connect.

Another option of having NickServ make these changes was considered, however
currently Solanum does not support modifying a user's modes externally, so an
extension to the server-to-server protocol would be required.
