---
title: Monthly General Meeting, March 2023
author: She
excerpt: >
  Approval of annual report. Election of a new board for operating year 2023.
  Discharge of last year's board. Set membership fee.
  Discuss course of action regarding the EMS Matrix bridge.
  Plan for April Fools' Day. Agree to make login failure notices opt-in.
---

## Propositions and Motions

### Presentation and Approval of Annual Report

The meeting approved the 2022 annual report.
This includes the financial report,
one activity report from each team,
and the auditors' report.
They can all be read here: [2022 annual report](/annual-reports/2022/)

### Auditors' Report and Discharge of Liability

A_Dragon and amdj presented the auditors' report.

Both agreed that they'd not seen any behaviour they consider malicious,
but did point out that the April 2022 MGM public minutes were late,
though they did not consider this to have been done maliciously.

They recommended the meeting to grant the board discharge of liability
for the past fiscal year.

### Annual Board Elections

Prior to the MGM, the organisation ran a month-long poll of
the entire organisation to allow all members to make a recommendation on how
the meeting should vote in the election of the chair, treasurer, and auditors.
Results were tallied using a condorcet method,
and votes were cast for the condorcet winners.

The vice chair was elected during the meeting
by nominating candidates, casting yes/no/abstain votes for each of them,
and then selecting the candidate with the largest proportion of "yes" votes.

| position(s)                 | person(s)   |
| :-------------------------- | :---------- |
| Chair                       | moonmoon    |
| Treasurer                   | Swant       |
| Auditor                     | amdj, kline |
| Projects and Community Rep  | Fuchs       |
| Engineering Rep             | spb         |
| Operations Rep, Vice Chair  | tomaw       |

### Organisation Membership Fee

An organisation membership fee of 0 SEK for 2023 was decided.

## Other Questions

### Where are we on Matrix changes?

Following a decision made during the
[February 2023 MGM](/minutes/2023-02-24-public#matrix-bridge-problems),
Libera staff have been collecting feedback on the Matrix bridge
run by Element Matrix Services (EMS).
We received a number of reports about the bridge
either leaking user information or facilitating abuse on Libera.

Additionally, members of the Projects and Community team asked
`#libera-communities` (our coordination channel with group contacts
from registered projects/communities) for feedback on possible
ways to mitigate the negative impact of the EMS bridge.
We recognize that several large projects on Libera depend on access
from Matrix, and it is not our intent to cut them off.

It was eventually decided that we would require EMS to disable
[portaling](https://matrix.org/docs/guides/types-of-bridging#portal-rooms).
One of the practical impacts of this change is that it would effectively
make bridging to Matrix using that bridge opt-in.
Other community-run bridges would be unaffected.
Feedback from `#libera-communities` on this option prior to this MGM
had been neutral-to-positive.

### Does anyone have plans for April Fools?

It was decided that we would make a Discord server
and send a global notice about us pivoting to it.

### Is it time to change the BADPASSWDMSG default to "OFF"?

The ability for users to opt-out of login failure notices
has existed for almost three months.
At the time the feature was announced,
the intent had been to eventually make those messages opt-in.

It was decided that we would make the change to opt-in on 2023-04-16,
and a blog post announcing the change would be published on 2023-04-02.
