---
title: Monthly General Meeting, August 2023
author: She
excerpt: >
  Confirmation of new and returning staff,
  placement of funds in a savings account with intersest,
  discussion of the pros/cons of centralized internal log management,
  discussion of possible changes to account expiry and nick limits.
---

## Propositions & Motions

### Confirmation of new and returning staff

This MGM confirmed two new members of staff who had been invited after
the previous MGM. Additionally, a former member of staff expressed
interest in rejoining the organization. This meeting voted to invite and
immediately confirm that person.

### Put 100k SEK in a placeringskonto with a bound time of 6 months

Last year, Libera Chat had a budget surplus that we've been keeping in our
organization's checking account. As it currently seems unlikely that our
operational costs will greatly increase in the near future, several
options were discussed for using a savings or investment account in order to
reduce the effects of inflation. It was ultimately decided to place the
majority (100k SEK) of our funds in a savings account with the bank we
currently use for 6 months and evaluate whether we wish to continue this
arrangement in 5 months (during the January 2024 MGM).

## Other Questions

### Searchable logging of all-staff channels

This MGM discussed the possibility of having a searchable log for
staff-only channels, subject to our usual 60 day retention period. This record
would be for internal use only and would make it easier for staff to
refer back to old conversations. The possibility of aggregating verbose
bot output using the same mechanism was also discussed. The MGM was generally
supportive of this idea but agreed that specific details regarding
the implementation would need further discussion.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
### Extending nickname expiry, removing expiry-related special cases, and reducing grouped nick limits
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013 -->

Finally, this MGM discussed potential changes to our policies regarding
nickname expiry and grouping. There was a proposal to extend the
nickname expiry time to 52 weeks, remove the special case for account
expiry after 2 weeks if they were last seen less than 2 hours after creation,
and reduce the limit on grouped nicknames to reduce the impact nick squatting
would have due to these changes. It was decided to remove the special case but
revisit the other two changes after performing some statistical analysis on
our account database to make a better-informed decision.
