---
title: Monthly General Meeting, June 2023
author: amdj
excerpt: >
  Approval of a new Projects & Community Team representative, further
  discussion about the EMS-run Matrix bridge, consideration of more staff
  candidates, whether to invert the behaviour of the chm_noctcp (+C)
  channel mode, further discussion about wallops vs global notices
---

## Propositions & Motions

### Approval of a New PaC Representative

The MGM approved a new representative for the Projects & Community team,
following the resignation of the previous representative.

## Other Questions

### Matrix Bridge Handling

The MGM held a discussion about how to handle the problems that the
bridge currently causes for us.

Among other options, we discussed whether to require EMS to disable
portaling, whether to disconnect and ban the bridge outright, whether to
remove the connection limit exemption for the bridge, or whether to make
portaling opt-in via channel mode.

Ultimately we decided to go with the former option, and requested that
EMS disable portaling between 2023-07-25 & 2023-07-31.

### Discussion of new staff candidates

The MGM held a discussion about a couple of new considerations for
members of staff.

### Inverting chm_noctcp

The MGM held a discussion about whether to invert the behaviour of the
chm_noctcp (+C) channel mode.

That is, if the mode is *not* set, CTCP queries to the channel (except
ACTION; /me) should not be possible, making CTCP queries to channels
opt-in rather than opt-out.

This follows from observed mass CTCP abuse and some broken client
behaviour in responding to channel-directed CTCP queries.

It was decided that further discussion on the topic was necessary, as
several points came up, including the possibility of removal of the +C
channel mode entirely and creating a new channel mode character instead.

### Use of globals and wallops

Further discussion was held about when and how to use global notices
and wallops, which categories of messages should use which method, and
whether to send certain message categories (server-specific maintenance,
project news, etc) at all, with either method.
