---
title: Monthly General Meeting, February 2024
author: She
excerpt: >
    The merits of relicensing our website content as CC BY-SA
---

## Other Questions

### Do we want to pursue relicensing of our guides to CC BY-SA?

Our website content is licensed under the [CC BY-SA-NC][licence1] licence.
Occasionally we receive requests to relicense it under a "free content"
licence, most often [CC BY-SA][licence2]. This item was added to the agenda
following one such request, with particular emphasis on how
our current licence prevents creating combined works with Wikipedia content.

As we do not require contributors to grant us rights to their content beyond
what the licence grants, up to 73 contributors would need to be contacted to
get their permission to redistribute their content under another licence.
Content that we cannot relicence (e.g. in cases of contributors not agreeing
to the relicence or content being derived from Freenode guides) would need
to be rewritten from scratch. This is a significant amount of effort for our
organization to undertake, and those present at the meeting were not
aware of anyone on staff volunteering to lead the effort.

Furthermore, the benefits of undertaking this effort were disputed.
One opinion is that the non-commercial clause (the "NC" in "BY-SA-NC") in our
case is a benefit, as it provides a recourse if someone mirrors our website
for profit. There were questions about whether the requester was representing
Wikipedia in any official capacity; it was determined that they were not.
It was also not clear that our site content would be of particular
relevance to Wikipedia as anything other than a source.

The meeting decided to allow our website content to
remain under its current licence and explicitly refuse the request.

[licence1]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
[licence2]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
