---
title: Monthly General Meeting, July 2024
author: bakerst
excerpt: >
    Finishing up a change to the channel namespace policy and an initial
    discussion about a user mode for IRC bots.
---

## Other questions

### Refinement of channel namespace policy change

Following up on the channel namespace policy change we [discussed in June][1],
we decided to further refine it.
We added wording about channels with confusingly similar names to other
channels, as well as a clearer recommendation when we recommend `#` vs. `##`
channels.
[The resulting change][2] has since been published on the website.

[1]: /minutes/2024-06-28-public#proposal-to-add-flexibility-and-judgement-to--namespace
[2]: https://github.com/Libera-Chat/libera-chat.github.io/commit/0b6c894c3590dc592a38889301556952feb1d8e1

### A user mode for IRC bots

We discussed an initial proposal to add a server-side mechanism to can mark
individual connections as IRC bots, as well as interactions with channel
moderation and the client protocol.
We decided not to move forward with the proposal yet, awaiting further
discussion and refinement.
