---
title: Monthly General Meeting, November 2024
author: amdj
excerpt: >
    E-mail retention, general secretary election, abuse mitigation
---

## Proposition and motions

### Retention/pruning of ticketing system e-mails

Some e-mails that end up in our ticketing system are already explicitly
covered under our [privacy policy][privacy]; for example, e-mails about
project registration and group contact changes are described as being kept
around for as long as the project exists.

However, our privacy policy does not describe what happens to every kind of
ticketing e-mail we could receive. At the moment, it merely states that we
will review any such data collected by other means yearly and discard it if
it is no longer required.

Staff discussed a few ideas about which kinds of e-mails should have
different retention periods, and whether and how we should automate our
ticketing system to purge tickets entirely rather than requiring manual
review.

[privacy]: https://libera.chat/privacy/

### General secretary proposal

During [a previous MGM][prevmgm] the staff decided to revisit the position
of an organisational general secretary once a proposal for the position
existed and could be reviewed.

That has since occurred, and this meeting elected a general secretary.

[prevmgm]: https://libera.chat/minutes/2024-09-27-public

## Other questions

### Should we load HURT?

Staff discussed loading an IRC server abuse mitigation module which would
have required clients connecting from specific IP address ranges to login
to services before they were allowed to interact with the rest of the
network. This would be an alternative to our existing SASL-only IP address
range restrictions, which don't let clients talk to services and so
present the catch-22 of needing an account but not being able to create
one.

However, it was decided that this module is not suitable for the network,
and an alternative proposal is now being worked upon.
