---
title: Monthly General Meeting, June 2024
author: She
excerpt: >
    Relaxation of namespace policy
---

## Propositions and motions

### Proposal to add flexibility and judgement to # namespace

Following discussion on this topic during the
[last meeting](/minutes/2024-05-31-public#are-namespaces-working-for-us-as-documented),
a concrete policy amendment was proposed that would allow informal channels
to exist alongside channels with a formal group registration in the `#`
namespace. The meeting voted to approve the proposal.
However due to concerns that the proposed wording was too lax,
the meeting agreed to defer merging the proposal until after the next MGM
to give time for a counterproposal to be developed.
