---
title: Monthly General Meeting, September 2024
author: She
excerpt: >
    Formalising the position of general secretary,
    testing new software for holding meetings.
---

## Proposition and motions

### Should we formalise the position of general secretary?

During the [March 2024 AGM][agm], it was agreed that it would be beneficial
for one person to be responsible for coordinating the signing and releases of
MGM minutes, a general secretary. The exact responsibilities of a
general secretary position were not fully agreed upon, but the meeting agreed
to trial a basic version of the position for six months.
As of this meeting, the trial has elapsed.

This meeting sought to better-define the responsibilities of a general
secretary within the Libera Chat organisation, particularly with regards to
their responsibilities regarding board meetings' minutes, if any.
The meeting reaffirmed that the general secretary should not be a board
position initially and agreed that auditors should not be able to be able to
be general secretaries due to concerns regarding inadequate oversight.
However, there was no proposal for a specific bylaws change to discuss,
and the meeting agreed to revisit this topic once such a proposal exists.

[agm]: /minutes/2024-03-29-public#mgm-minutes-deadlines

## Other questions

### Should we switch meeting software from Mumble to Jitsi?

Currently our general meetings are held on a private
[Mumble](https://www.mumble.info/)-compatible server.
Over the years, we have experienced a variety of audio quality issues,
which were tolerable prior to the August 2024 MGM where technical
difficulties resulted in the meeting being paused.

This meeting discussed [Jitsi](https://jitsi.org/) as an alternative.
It was noted that Jitsi has significantly higher resource usage than
Mumble, both client-side and server-side, however this was considered
acceptable if it means experiencing fewer audio quality issues.
A member of staff offered an instance of the service to try out,
though the meeting agreed that for MGMs the service must be hosted on
Libera Chat's own servers.

The meeting agreed to try out Jitsi after the meeting's closure,
then adopt it for a future meeting if the initial trial encounters no issues.
