---
title: Monthly General Meeting, March 2024
author: Swant
excerpt: >
  Approval of annual report. Election of a new board for operating year 2024.
  Discharge of last year's board. Set membership fee.
  Discussion on MGM minutes deadlines.
  Plan for April Fools' Day. Discussion on showing K-line durations.
---

## Propositions and Motions

### Presentation and Approval of Annual Report

The meeting approved the 2023 annual report.
This includes the financial report,
one activity report from each team,
and the auditors' report.
They can all be read here: [2023 annual report](/annual-reports/2023/)

### Auditors' Report and Discharge of Liability

amdj and kline presented the auditors' report.

Both agreed that they'd not seen any behaviour they consider malicious,
but did point out that several 2023 MGM minutes were late,
though they did not consider this to have been done maliciously and have worked
with the board to put a plan of action in place.

They recommended the meeting to grant the board discharge of liability
for the past fiscal year.

### Annual Board Elections

Like last year, prior to the MGM, the organisation ran a month-long poll of
the entire organisation to allow all members to make a recommendation on how
the meeting should vote in the election of the chair, treasurer, and auditors.

The vice chair was elected during the meeting
by nominating candidates, casting yes/no/abstain votes for each of them,
and then selecting the candidate with the largest proportion of "yes" votes.

| position(s)                 | person(s)   |
| :-------------------------- | :---------- |
| Chair                       | moonmoon    |
| Treasurer                   | Swant       |
| Auditor                     | amdj        |
| Projects and Community Rep  | Allie       |
| Engineering Rep, Vice Chair | spb         |
| Operations Rep              | tomaw       |

### Organisation Membership Fee

An organisation membership fee of 0 SEK for 2024 was decided.

## Other Questions

### MGM minutes deadlines

Continuing discussion the auditors raised to the board potential solutions for
the late MGM minutes both internally and externally were discussed. The main
takeaway was to trial the position of general secretary for 6 months, as a
non-board position, with the main responsibility of ensuring the minutes
timelines are met whilst not necessarily always being the meeting secretary.
If the position turns out well the meeting recommended codifying it into
the bylaws after the trial period.

### Plans for April fool's

The meeting decided to work on trying to realise these ideas:

- Change our logo for the day to a cat-ified version, catering to the french.
- Make a clone of our website using the [libera.cat](https://libera.cat)
  domain, with the cat-ified logo and all words replaced with "meows".
- Load the atheme module CatServ for the day.
- Enable our upcoming auto-cloaking feature but with the `meow/` prefix rather
  than `user/` for the day, and then launch it properly on April 2.

### Disabling hide_tkdline_duration

Discussion on whether or not to disable hide_tkdline_duration was held but the
meeting didn't reach a conclusion. It was decided to continue discussion
outside of the meeting.
