---
title: Extraordinary General Meeting, March 2025
author: amdj
excerpt: >
    Board composition & restructuring, codifying how people withdraw from
    the organisation or change their quorum membership status, revisiting
    +s as a default channel mode, revisiting the default channel MLOCK
    setting
---

## Note

This meeting was scheduled as an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) due to
the February MGM failing to obtain quorum.  This was necessary because the
March MGM was also the scheduled annual general meeting (AGM), whose agenda
was already quite long, and the bylaws state that only one MGM may occur in
each month.

## Proposition and motions

### Board composition & restructuring

The January 2025 MGM proposed a new board structure whose discussion was
then moved to the all-staff e-mail list.

That e-mail discussion thread was reviewed during this EGM and approved
unanimously; the board now has a chair, a treasurer, an operations team
representative, and two general board seats.

The two general board seats are occupied by organisation members who
announce their candidacy for election by the entire membership, rather than
be put forward as a team representative by the members of that team.

The operations team continues to have a dedicated board member, who must be
a member of that team.

### Codifying how people change membership status

The meeting sought to take first steps toward codifying how members
withdraw from the organisation or change between ordinary / quorum status.

It was noted in the January 2025 MGM that changing one's quorum membership
status is not particularly visible to all members.  More discussion on this
topic occurred on the all-staff e-mail list, and that was visited during
this EGM.

It was quickly decided that having both operations be very visible to
all members and ideally triggered by the organisation member in question
was a good idea.

It was decided to not codify a particular method into the bylaws; for
example, making a GitHub pull request against the staff & members CSV was
a popular idea, but writing that into the bylaws would cause issues
for anyone having trouble accessing GitHub.

## Other questions

### Should we adjust the default channel creation mode?

At the moment, creating a new (unregistered) channel sets the default
channel modes to `+Cnst`.  This forbids CTCPs (except `/me`), external
messages (from people not in the channel), changing the channel topic
(unless done by a channel operator), and the channel from appearing in
public lists or searches (e.g. `/whois`, `/list`, and `ALIS`).

A concern was raised that projects may create new channels as and when
required, register them, and then fail to unset the `+s` channel mode when
they don't need it enabled for some specific reason.

It was decided that staff would reach out to various projects whose channels
are `+s` without an obvious reason, in order to draw attention to the fact
that their channels are not discoverable by our users.

It was also decided that we would make some form of public announcement,
either a `WALLOPS` or a blog post.

Finally, it was also decided that we will have `ChanServ` send an additional
notice to people when they register a channel, explaining that it is `+s` by
default, and providing instructions for how to unset this if this is not
desired.

### Should we change the default MLOCK setting?

The default `MLOCK` setting (applied to newly-registered channels) at the
time of this EGM was `+nt-lk`.  It was noted that the `MLOCK` setting is
also applied to registered channels that are being re-created (no-one is in
them when someone joins), and thus keeping at least `+nt` was a good idea.

The option of enabling `GUARD` by default was noted, as it would reduce
the need for `MLOCK` to set channel modes on channel re-creation.
This setting makes `ChanServ` stay in the channel while it is registered,
and thus ordinarily prevents a registered channel from being destroyed
(because not everyone has left it).  It was quickly decided that this is a
bad idea, as people routinely register channels and then leave them for
months at a time, and having that extra overhead is undesirable.

This topic was originally proposed because someone wanted to set `+k` on a
newly-registered channel and couldn't (due to the `MLOCK` including `-k`).

It was thus decided that the default `MLOCK` will not include `-k` or `-l`.

It was also quickly decided that the default `MLOCK` should include `+C`, to
match the default channel creation modes (with the exception of `+s`).

Thus, the new default `MLOCK` setting, applied to channels registered beyond
this point, is `+Cnt`.
