---
title: Monthly General Meeting, June 2025
author: She
excerpt: >
  Internal policy about when to use the spamfilter, spamfilter upgrades,
  and guidelines on "security" status for staff.
---

## Propositions and Motions

There were no propositions or motions for this meeting.

## Other Questions

### Spamfilter usage and features

Libera.Chat has a spam filter module that is loaded on all IRC servers.
It is possible to opt out of spam filtration with channel mode `u`
for messages sent to channels and user mode `u` for messages received as PMs.
Additionally, the spam filter can only inform staff of which user tripped the
filter, not the contents or target of the message that was filtered.

Spam filtration inherently comes with a risk of false positives, especially
given that users might quote spam after it gets added to the filter.
Therefore, it was generally understood that items should only be added to the
spam filter when nothing else is effective at mitigation, and only with
strong informal agreement from other members of staff.
However, prior to this meeting, there was no explicit internal policy for
when to add entries to the spamfilter. This meeting agreed to create an
internal policy document for spam filter usage.

This meeting also discussed the possibility of having spam filter
patterns that cannot be opted out of. Following internal discussions outside
of general meetings, it was agreed that a `superdrop` flag type should be
implemented that causes messages to be discarded even when the target
is `+u`. It was decided that `+u` should still allow the sender to not trigger
any behaviour that notifies staff of the filtered message.
As before, private messages to staff would still bypass the filter.

It was also discussed how we should handle client-side exploits in the context
of spam filtration, such as denial of service attacks exploiting overeager
antivirus software or remote code execution on scriptable clients.
It was agreed that both classes of exploits should be filtered, but only
remote code execution exploit mitigation should use the `superdrop` flag.

### Guidelines around the "security" status for staff

There exists an internal "security" status in our service management system
that can be applied by the operations team in case of a security breach.
When applied to a staffer, they are stripped of most of their privileges
except for their reduced IRC connection limits, their email account,
and access to a shell account on an internal server.

There hasn't been a need for this status to be applied so far, but
an item was added to the agenda to draft internal policy for its use.
It was quickly agreed that no explicit internal policy for using this status
is necessary at this time. It was, however, suggested that if the operations
team uses this status, they must notify the board.

It was also mentioned that applying the status as-is could potentially
violate bylaws, as members with the security status are still members of the
organization but would not have access to the mailing list through which
general meeting invites are sent. It was agreed that those under this status
should be able to keep their access to the mailing list, as the operations
team can simply remove their email access if it is being abused.
