---
title: Monthly General Meeting, March 2025
author: amdj
excerpt: >
  Presentation and approval of annual report. Discharge of last year's
  board. Set an organisation membership fee. Election of a new board and
  auditors for operating year 2025. Acceptance of a pro-bono offer to
  advise us about the UK Online Safety Act. Network policy amendment for
  medical advice.
---

## Propositions and Motions

### Presentation and Approval of Annual Report

The meeting approved the 2024 annual report by unanimous vote. This includes
the financial report, one activity report from each team, and the auditor's
report.

They can all be [read here](/annual-reports/2024/).

### Discharge of Liability

amdj presented the auditor's report. He recommended that the board members
be discharged of liability for the past fiscal year, which was granted by
unanimous vote.

### Organisation Membership Fee

An organisation membership fee of 0 SEK for 2025 was agreed by unanimous
vote.

### Annual Board and Auditor Elections

Like the last two years, prior to the MGM, the organisation ran a month-long
poll of the entire organisation to allow all members to make a
recommendation on how the meeting should vote.

Unlike the last two years, the structure of the board had been changed by a
vote during [a previous MGM](/minutes/2025-03-07-public). This meeting
elected the positions of chair, treasurer, operations team representative,
two general board seats, and two auditors by unanimous vote to approve the
election polling.

The vice chair must be one of the elected board members, and for this
reason, was elected during the meeting in a real-time fashion, by only the
members present at the meeting. This vote was also unanimous.

| Position(s)                 | Person      |
| :-------------------------- | :---------- |
| Chair                       | moonmoon    |
| Treasurer                   | Swant       |
| Operations Rep              | tomaw       |
| General, Vice Chair         | glguy       |
| General                     | She         |
| Auditor                     | amdj        |
| Auditor                     | Sario       |

## Other Questions

### Acceptance of a pro-bono offer to advise us on the UK Online Safety Act

An undisclosed law firm has offered to advise us on the compliance
procedures and consequences of the United Kingdom's new
[Online Safety Act 2023](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2023/50),
which came into force recently.

The vast majority of the meeting participants were in favour, and authorised
a board member to respond to the proposal on behalf of the organisation.

### Amend the network policy to discourage or prohibit medical advice

It has come to our attention that some channels exist on the network where
medical misinformation is being promulgated that may drag the network into
potential liability.

Discussion about whether to amend the network policy to discourage or
entirely prohibit channels whose purpose or spirit is the giving of medical
advice ensued.

It was also noted that there is an undisclosed website that specifically
calls out Libera as being welcoming to this topic, merely because we host
their IRC channel.

The meeting decided to submit a proposal for the wording of a policy
amendment to the all-staff mailing list, for more discussion during a future
MGM.
