---
title: Monthly General Meeting, April 2026
author: taavi
excerpt: >
    Discuss funding software development and going TLS-only. Deploy some draft
    IRCv3 specifications.
---

## Propositions and Motions

### Fundraising efforts for IRC software development

This was a late addition to the agenda that was approved during the meeting.

It was discussed whether Libera Chat should seek funding for development of our
tools. This meeting decided that a discussion should be started on the all-staff
mailing list to discuss concrete development needs and other practicalities to
funding such work before a future MGM can potentially approve those plans as an
organisation.

## Other questions

### Should Libera.Chat go TLS-only?

This meeting discussed removing the ability to connect to Libera.Chat with a
plaintext connection. It was noted that currently a little over 90% of all
connections do use TLS. The meeting concluded that we want to learn more about
how these users are connecting and why they can't use TLS before deciding
anything.

### Deploying draft IRCv3 specs

The meeting discussed plans for deploying support for draft IRCv3
specifications, such as +draft/(un)react, draft/multiline, and draft/ICON.

Current Solanum policy is not to accept code for draft specifications, so
unless that policy is changed, it was noted that we would need to create a
separate code repository for those modules. There was consensus to create a
repository for those on Codeberg and to decided on a case-by-case basis which
draft specifications we want to support.
