---
title: Getting Help
---

We try to document everything, but sometimes you just need to talk to a person.

## How to ask?

If you can connect to IRC, even if you can't use your preferred nick or
identify to your account, please do so.

If you cannot connect then refer to the [About](/about) page for a list of
other contact options.

Generally please _don't_ send email until instructed to do so by staff, when
they will tell you which email address to use, but if all else fails, send
email to <support@libera.chat>.

## Whom to ask?

Generally it's preferred that you address your question to _just one_ staff
member.

Communicate using [private messages](#PMing) with any staffer who is
appropriate, available and responsive, according to the following criteria.

### Who's appropriate?

The staff of {{ site.title }} are divided broadly in 4 teams, so you should
attempt to communicate directly with one member of the appropriate team if
possible. Read the [about page](/about) for an explanation of the teams and to
see who's in each team.

If you don't know the appropriate team, or nobody in that team is available and
responsive, then simply contact any member of staff.

### Who's available?

Use the IRC command `/stats p` to get a list of on-duty staff.

See if there's anyone on that list who's also in the "appropriate" list (as
above), and send them a [private message](#PMing).

Bear in mind that we're all volunteers, so sometimes we might forget to change
our status: the list might be empty even though we're supposed to be on duty,
or it might show someone as on-duty even though they're asleep, or away from
their keyboard, or Just Too Busy.

If you don't get a response after 5 minutes, then try someone else, or if
there's nobody else listed, move on to the next step.

Next, try using the IRC command `/who libera/staff/*` to get a list of all
on-line staff.

Again, see if there's anyone on that list who's also in the "appropriate" list,
and send them a private message. This list will overlap with the `/stats p`
list, so skip anyone you tried on the previous step.

Note that this will produce a fairly dense report; the information you need is
the nick in the second-to-last field on each line.

If neither `/stats p` nor `/who` results in any usable contacts, try simply
asking in the `#libera` channel. Or if your question is sensitive or private,
feel free to [PM](#PMing) any of the ops in that channel (but bear in mind that
some of them are [bots](/guides/bots)).

### Who's responsive?

Sometimes you may have to try several people (or channels) before you get a
response.

Give people a reasonable time to respond before assuming that they won't;
otherwise you wind up getting multiple responses from multiple people, which is
confusing for you and time-wasting for us.

A a general rule, if you don't get a response, please wait 5 minutes between
PMing another person, wait 20 minutes before repeating a post (in any channel),
and wait an hour before repeating a PM to the same person.

## We're not clairevoyant

Staff may ask what may seem like strange or irrelevant questions.

They need to do this because the symptoms you've explained may have multiple
possible causes.

Please do your best to answer any questions, as it helps them help you.

## Say Thanks

If someone works on your problem, be sure to acknowledge and thank them, even
if they don't solve it; it's the only payment they receive for spending time
helping you.

Also follow up to anyone you've asked who hasn't responded, to let them know
that you no longer require assistance.

## PMing

Private messages, also known as "PM's", can be initiated in many ways,
depending on your client.

As always, start by consulting the documentation for your IRC client. If you're
using a web gateway, check for instructions on the same website.

Some clients allow you to simply click or tap on a channel name or nick to open
a new conversion. Others work entirely by typing commands. Most GUI clients
allow you to do both.

The method that is closest to universal is to use the `/msg` command, with the
target nick and the text that you want to send them. ``` /msg Swant Can you
help me please? I can't figure out how to send private messages. ```

However in a few clients this may send the message invisibly, and you will have
to wait for a response before a window opens with the first reply from the
other person.

If you prefer to open a window (or tab or whatever), and then type into it,
then some clients support the `/query` command: ``` /query jess ``` ... and
then type your message in the new window or tab that appears.

## Things not to do

1. If you're banned, don't create a new nick to bypass the ban; email directly
   instead.
1. Staff do not intervene in channel bans; talk nicely to the chan-op instead.

