---
title: Activity Report 2021 - Operations
---

The operations team manages the provisioning and maintenance of the
various servers and services Libera.Chat uses to provide IRC chat
services. We keep the servers running, configured, and updated.

We've had a focus on improving automation this year. Building a new
network from the ground up has given us the chance to make improvements
that would have been seen as too disruptive in the past. Throughout the
year we've worked to migrate more of our services to be centrally
managed with a goal of reproducible deployments and network-wide
consistency in configuration.

Libera.Chat is made possible by a wide variety of free and open-source
software. While we're obviously reliant on solanum and atheme, there are
many other packages critical to running our network. If you aren't
already familiar with these projects, you might take a look: Debian,
Etherpad, Gamja, Grafana, Kiwiirc, Mlmmj, Mumble, Nginx, Postfix,
Puppet, RT, Tor, WireGuard.

The operations team is responsible for coordinating with the sponsors
who make Libera.Chat possible by providing reliable servers and network
connectivity. Our team is grateful to these sponsors for stepping up so
quickly and making Libera.Chat possible this year when they were needed
the most. Many of our sponsors can be found on our
[sponsors](https://libera.chat/sponsors/) page, but even more
organizations have thrown in their support to make this project
possible.
